1) Kinetic competition: NAC and backtracking are in kinetic competition by
defitition: it's a constraint in the model. I have added an extra step in
deriving the equation for the rate constant of backtracking. You argued that a
high NAC should prevent high rates of backtracking, but this is not the case.
It is the AP (experimentally obtained) which decides the balance between NAC
and backtracking. The total flux is NAC + backtracking, and AP is just
backtracking / total flux.

2) Stochastic simulations. Gillespie's stochastic simulation algorithm (SSA)
is well known by modellers of biochemical kinetics modelling, so I don't think
any further introduction is needed. The basis for the theory is that chemical
reactions are assumed to be random and independent. The probability of having
one reaction happen over another is given by the reaction rate expression. See
the wikipedia-article for an introduction.

3) I tried looking into different optimalization packages, but I concluded
that there was not much to gain. This is because these simulations are cheap,
so I can cover the entire parameter space densely, so there is no real need
for optimization.

4) Mode of distribution: samme som peak. 

5) A rate constant på 1/s for NAC er det samme som nt/s, fordi en NAC == 1 nt.

# DONE
#6) Figure 1 in results: OK, remove background grid. Add y axis with all
#100.000 events.

7) Endre fra "screening" til "iteration", eventuelt nevne i teksten at first
round of screening var first iteration.

8) Legge til nukleotidene til N25 på Figure 2?

9) Ta vekk "rounds" i figurtekst og hovedtekst, så bare "in abortive cycling"

10) Ta vekk tabellen, den har bare en rad.

11) 'did not measure abortive cycling lasting shorter', ikke cycle of abortive cycling

12) Ikke si "most above" when fitting to extrapolated, si noe som 90% of
values higher than ...

13) The NAC is limited by substrate availability, so it cannot be expected to
be higher than what was ovserved for elongation. However, in the first
iteration, we wanted to see if the model would reject unrealistic values. --
Add this to the methods at the end when you set the 1-25 boundary?

# DONE
#14) Remove grid from histograms.

15) Check order of Figures, Nadi thinks it is wrong.

16) Consistency is in terms of factor affecting the AP values: GreB +/- and sequence

# DONE
# 17) Cumul scrunch fit, ta bort grid og unødvendige farger. Endre tekst på "fit
# to measurments" til "fit and extrapolation to single exponental function".

18) Nadi blander inn støy, white noise: ikke riktig vei å gå.
